A City of Skating - A Look Into Toronto’s Best Skate Trails

By: Noah Park, grade 10

Chances are, you live within walking distance from at least one of the
148 city or community-run skating rinks that have opened this winter.
It’s easy to overlook the extensive network of both indoor and outdoor
rinks that sprawl across the city, but each winter, Toronto boasts more
skating rinks than all of its subway stations, shopping malls, and
sports stadiums *combined*.

Moreover, many frequent skaters, including myself, often take for
granted that each of the 148 skating rinks can be used free of charge.
While Denver offers an abundance of parkland and Kansas City provides
fare-free public transit, Toronto stands out among world-class cities
with its plentiful skating rinks that are open to all.

To take advantage of Toronto’s captivating skating scene, go beyond your
neighbourhood rink and check out these three popular skating
destinations. Each location is ideal for a weekend trip with family or a
special date this Valentine’s Day.

Most *Unique*: The Bentway Skate Trail

Nestled under the Gardiner Expressway, this figure eight loop is one of
a kind. Come for the free hot chocolate (every Monday 5:00 - 9:00 pm)
and stay for the colourful woven arches, which are inspired by the
northern lights, that stretch across the skate trail.

Most *Iconic*: Nathan Phillips Square

In front of the famous TORONTO sign and under the giant arches wrapped
in Christmas lights, the skating experience doesn’t get more vibrant
than at Nathan Phillips Square. Get here easily via the subway and make
a day out of it by shopping at the Eaton Centre afterwards.

Most *Beautiful*: Colonel Samuel Smith Skating Trail

Take a break from the bustling downtown rinks and set your sights on
this serene, picturesque figure eight trail which meanders through
dotted evergreens. The loop provides the perfect environment to clear
your head and breathe in fresh air coming off of Lake Ontario.
