&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**Just a five minute walk from Yonge-Dundas Square, *Flipper’s* offers up one of Toronto’s most unique brunch experiences.** This spot specializes in Japanese soufflé pancakes, which you may have come across on social media. The restaurant’s facade is kind of a Trojan horse — the building’s aged, exposed brick and wrought iron railings create a quaint and charming exterior, but step inside, and you’re immersed in a bright and aesthetic wonderland where you can find one of the tastiest — and most Instagrammable — brunches in the city.  
  
  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;If you’ve never heard of Japanese soufflé pancakes, you could quite literally think of them as regular pancakes on steroids. Thanks to whipping the egg whites, they come out super tall and super fluffy! *Flipper’s* serves a variety of soufflé (and traditional) pancakes in a plethora of flavours; we ordered their strawberry soufflé pancakes, which were generously topped with fresh strawberries and whipped strawberry cream. The whipped toppings were light and airy, and with the pancakes, it felt like we were taking bites straight from clouds. Additionally, neither the cream nor the pancake was overly sweet, allowing you to leave satisfied rather than sluggish, and giving you just enough remaining energy to roam the nearby CF Eaton Centre for the millionth time. Soufflé Pancakes rating: **4.25/5**  
  
  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Flipper’s also serves many savory dishes, and what is brunch without a bit of lunch? We chose a timeless favourite, chicken and waffles, which healed my broken soul. Our chicken was seasoned powerfully, notably with an assertive, but appreciated hit of rosemary. Uniquely, it was prepared karaage style (a Japanese frying technique that yields an ultra-crispy result). The waffle was typical, but went hand-in-hand as a soft contrast with the chicken. To top it off, we received complimentary strawberry butter and melted maple butter, adding both tart and rich sweetness and beating syrup any day. Despite being a classic, Flipper’s modern rendition of Southern chicken and waffles finds itself holding just as much heart and soul as the original — though some will say it’s just the saturated fat content. C&W rating: **4.75/5**  
  
  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Unfortunately, trendy and aesthetic food doesn’t come cheap. And too often, it doesn’t taste nearly as good as it looks. Flipper’s delivers food that tastes just as brilliant as it looks, Flipper’s delivers food that tastes just as brilliant as it looks, which can be rare when it comes to camera-friendly food. Our two dishes totaled to $42, but if you (and your wallet) are open to trying something a bit different from the same old same old, your dollar will get you more than it may seem like at face value. And hey, with the HST frozen until February 15th, there's no better time to check them out. Flipper’s rating: **4.5/5**  
  

&nbsp; 
